# crossAct
Data and analysis scripts for a study of active learning in a cross-situational word learning task: "Sampling to learn words: 
Adults and children sample words that reduce referential ambiguity" (Zettersten &amp; Saffran)

## Abstract

How do learners gather new information during word learning? One possibility is that learners selectively sample items that help them reduce uncertainty about new word meanings. In a series of cross-situational word learning tasks with adults and children, we manipulated the referential ambiguity of label-object pairs experienced during training and subsequently investigated which words participants chose to sample additional information about. In our first experiment, adult learners chose to receive additional training on object-label associations that reduce referential ambiguity during cross-situational word learning. This ambiguity-reduction strategy was related to improved test performance. In two subsequent experiments, we found that, at least in some contexts, children (3-8 years of age) show a similar preference to seek information about words experienced in ambiguous word learning situations. In Experiment 2, children did not preferentially select object-label associations that remained ambiguous during cross-situational word learning. However, in a third experiment that increased the relative ambiguity of two sets of novel object-label associations, we found evidence that children preferentially make selections that reduce ambiguity about novel word meanings. These results carry implications for understanding how children actively contribute to their own language development by seeking information that supports learning.

## Link to OSF project (not yet public for reviewing purposes):

https://osf.io/udmvh/

## Analysis Walkthrough

Here is a direct link to the html rendering of the R Markdown file in the analysis folder. This provides a walkthrough of the major analyses in the paper.

https://mzettersten.github.io/crossSitAct/analysis/Crossact.html

## Contents

### data

This folder contains data files and the codebook:

- **Crossact_data.csv**: The complete experimental dataset

- **Crossact_codebook.csv**: A codebook for the experimental dataset

### analysis

This folder contains analysis scripts:

- **Crossact.R**: An R script documenting all analyses described in the manuscript

- **Crossact.Rmd**: An R markdown script documenting all analyses described in the manuscript

- **Crossact.html**: Output of the R markdown script (open in a browser)

-**summarizeData.R**: helpr script for averaging data and computing CIs

### figures

The figures folder contains the figures generated by the analysis script.

## Questions

Feel free to contact me at **zettersten@wisc.edu** if you have any comments or questions about the data or the analyses.




